This directory contains samples of each type of block page we know how
to detect.

The HTTP status-line and header are reconstructed from OONI reports and
are not fully representative of the original pages. For example, we do
not know the original response-phrase (e.g. "OK" or "Not Found") nor the
original header ordering.


== 200-EEEP, 200-EEEP-OTHER

These are block pages served in Greece for gambling web sites. The
acronym E.E.E.P. stands for the Greek name of the Hellenic Gaming
Commission. There is an OONI blog post about Greek blocking:
https://ooni.torproject.org/post/eeep-greek-censorship/
Every ISP implements its own blocking and block page.

The 200-EEEP-OTHER class exists because there are many E.E.E.P.-related
block pages, and we only have specific classifier for the ones we have
seen so far. They should end up in a catchall class so they can get
their own classifiers, rather than being treated as 200 non-blocks.


== 403-ABERDEEN

The block page of the University of Aberdeen's web content filter. I
guess someone is running ooniprobe there. It tells you what the category
of the blocked content is.


== 403-AMAZON-CLOUDFRONT

This block page may ultimately come either from Amazon S3 (storage
service) or Amazon CloudFront (content delivery network). It has the
headers:
	Server: AmazonS3
	X-Amz-Cf-Id: ...
The response body is XML that says "AccessDenied".


== 403-BADBEHAVIOR

Bad Behavior (http://bad-behavior.ioerror.us/about/) is a PHP plugin
that does heuristic spam detection. Its HTTP status-text is "Bad
Behavior" but the OONI data does not include the status-text. The text
may say:
	"An invalid request was received from your browser. This may be caused by a malfunctioning proxy server or browser privacy software."
or it may say:
	"You do not have permission to access this server. Before trying again, run anti-virus and anti-spyware software and remove any viruses and spyware from your computer."


== 403-BLUEHOST

A custom block page of the Bluehost web hosting company. It says one of:
	"Access denied.  Your IP address [X.X.X.X] is blacklisted.  If you feel this is in error please contact your hosting providers abuse department"
	"Access denied.  Your IP address [X.X.X.X] is blacklisted.  If you feel this is in error please contact your hosting providers abuse department."
It apparently is produced by this Apache module:
	https://github.com/bluehost/mod_rbld
which contains a similar string in this file:
	https://github.com/bluehost/mod_rbld/blob/d9be74f7cdc672c3a8bb803ccaebc10595af4dce/mod_rbld.conf
	"Access denied.  Your IP address is blacklisted.  If you feel this is in error please contact your hosting provider's abuse department."
(Notice, however, that the string in that file is not identical: it
lacks a placeholder for the IP address and has an apostrophe in
"provider's".)


== 403-CLOUDFLARE

Various block pages of CloudFlare. The most common is the famous
"Attention Required!" that shows a captcha. It appears that some sites
provide their own custom markup for this page, e.g.
	<title>4chan - Verification Required</title>
	<title>Hack Forums - Site Challenge</title>
There is a variation that does not show a captcha, but simply denies
access. Based on the text, it may be a manually configured block.
	<title>Access denied | [domain] used CloudFlare to restrict access</title>
	The owner of this website ([domain]) has banned your IP address ([IP]).


== 403-CRAIGSLIST

Custom block page for craigslist.org. Usually the header contains only
the fields Set-Cookie and Content-Length, but sometimes it additionally
contains Date and Connection.


== 403-GOOGLE-SORRY

The Google page "We're sorry... but your computer or network may be
sending automated queries." This one does not give you an opportunity to
solve a captcha.


== 403-GROUPON

Custom block page of www.groupon.com. It gets served with
"Content-Encoding: gzip" so there may be multiple. Uncompressing one of
them says:
	<title>403 Something broke...</title>
	<h2>Oops! Internal Error</h2>
	<p>
	  Something went wrong with the page you requested. Try refreshing. If that doesn't work, click the button below to browse all of our amazing deals.
	</p>


== 403-IRAN

Block page used in Iran. There are two places where it may vary. The
first is in the title, which is of the form "M<digit>-<digit>". Looking
at 2462 samples from June 2015, I found this distribution of titles:

	$ grep -h -o '<title>.*' * | sed -e 's/^<title>//' | sort | uniq -c
	     78 M1-1
	     36 M1-2
	    101 M1-3
	     58 M1-4
	     35 M1-5
	     63 M1-6
	     51 M1-7
	     59 M1-8
	     61 M7-1
	     83 M7-2
	     77 M7-3
	     69 M7-4
	     77 M7-5
	     66 M7-6
	     67 M7-7
	     67 M7-8
	    192 M8-1
	    242 M8-2
	    195 M8-3
	    149 M8-4
	    187 M8-5
	    164 M8-6
	    172 M8-7
	    113 M8-8

The second place it may vary is in the source of the iframe. It may be
either of these:
	"http://10.10.34.34?type=Invalid Site&policy=MainPolicy "
	"http://10.10.34.34?type=Invalid Keyword&policy=MainPolicy "
It seems like the "Invalid Keyword" can only happen when the requested
URL has a query string.

Citizen Lab has a variation from 2014 with type="", rather than
type="Invalid Site" or type="Invalid Keyword"; also the source of the
referenced iframe:
https://github.com/citizenlab/blockpages/blob/master/html/ir.html
https://github.com/citizenlab/blockpages/blob/master/html/ir-iframe.html


== 403-MCAFEE

Block page of McAfee Global Threat Intelligence, a reputation-based
firewall.
	<li>McAfee Global Threat Intelligence has determined</li>
	    <ul>
	      <li>this destination to have  a suspicious or malicious reputation at this time </li>
	      <li>something in the connection that matches a threat defense signature </li>
	      <li>malware, spyware or other content should be blocked</li>
It has only been seen on www.defcon.org.


== 403-PASTEBIN

"Censor Kitty denies access". Pastebin in on CloudFlare, so you may get
a CloudFlare captcha, or you may get their custom block page: "We have
blocked your IP from accessing our website because we have detected
unnatural browsing behavior. Depending on the violation, the block could
be temporary, but also permanent."


== 403-PINTEREST

A custom 403 page, says it's bot detection.
	<h1>Uh oh! We've found a bot</h1>
	<p>It looks like there's a bot running on your network. <a class="link" href="//help.pinterest.com/entries/22914692">Send us a message</a> with your IP address and we'll help you get going again.</p>


== 403-RACKSPACE

Just the HTML message: "<h2>Forbidden</h2>". Seen on
www.womensmediacenter.com, www.upci.org, heroin.org,
www.gaytravelnet.com. A traceroute to these domains suggests they are
hosted on Rackspace.


== 403-SUCURI

Block page of the Sucuri CloudProxy web application firewall
(https://sucuri.net/website-firewall/).


== 403-SONICWALL

Graphics and text that say "Dell SonicWALL Network Security Appliance.
This site has been blocked by the network administrator." It gives the
client IP address and a category such as "Gambling" or
"Alcohol/Tobacco". There is an ooniprobe in AS2529 that is stuck behind
one of these appliances (much like the 403-ABERDEEN case).
However, the signature also appears commonly over all reports for
www.schwarzreport.org, usually when accessed over Tor. In this case the
block page is qualitatively different, with different line wrapping, and
it lacks a blocking category. It oddly seems to be used for server-side
blocking of clients, not client-side blocking of servers.


== 403-TYPEPAD

Custom block page of www.typepad.com. It is served with a status of 403;
however the text in the body makes it sound more like a 404:
	<img alt="404 page not found" title="404 page not found"
	<p>The page you visited could not be found.</p>


== 403-WILDAPRICOT

"403.6 - Access denied." Custom block page of Wild Apricot, some kind of
hosting service for clubs. It says "Your IP address has been flagged for
unauthorized access."


== 403-WITZA

Custom block page of web host witza.com.


== 403-AKAMAI, 404-AKAMAI

A block page with "Server: AkamaiGHost". It has the characteristic
Akamai "Reference&#32;&#35;" string. It can have HTTP status 403 or 404.


== 406-SITE5

It's the message "This request has been denied for security reasons. If
you believe this was in error, please contact support." The source of
the message is unclear, but evidence from web search indicates that it
comes from sites on a hosting company called Site5.
	http://forum.joomla.org/viewtopic.php?t=855169
	"This has very probably nothing to do with the problem, but...
	where are you hosted? I'm on a site5.com VPS in London that is
	due to be moved to a new location in a few days..."
	https://wordpress.stackexchange.com/questions/135275/new-wordpress-error-message-not-seen-this-before
	"If you're using site5 hosting, they block simple passwords i.e.
	'123'. Changing the password to something complicated fixed it."
	https://www.webhostingtalk.com/showthread.php?t=1466724
	"I just purchased a hosting plan with Site5 and I can't access
	my site. Also when I go on the Site5 site, I get.... 'This
	request has been denied for security reasons. If you believe
	this was in error, please contact support.'"
The message may come with a variety of Server header values, and may be
chunked or non-chunked.


== 410-MYSPACE

A zero-byte document with status code 410 and "X-Powered-By: Express".
Sometimes it is an empty document with chunked Transfer-Encoding;
sometimes it is an empty docuemnt with zero Content-Length.


== 501-CONVIO

A custom block page for sites hosted on convio.net. Based on the
response body, it seems clearly a Tor-specific block:
	"Not Implemented  Tor IP not allowed"
The OONI data has a few cases that look erroneous and are missing the
body (despite having a "Content-Length: 35" header).


== 503-AMAZON

This may be bot detection by Amazon because of the HTML comment:
"To discuss automated access to Amazon data please contact api-services-support@amazon.com."
It appears for both Tor and non-Tor requests.


== 503-CLOUDFLARE

These are block pages that run some kind of automated CloudFlare browser
test. There is distinctive CloudFlare markup, like
	<div class="cf-browser-verification cf-im-under-attack">
The HTML title is usually "Just a moment..." but the page can be
customized.


== 503-DOD

"Access to this website has been blocked for operational reasons by the
DOD Enterprise-Level Protection System." This seems to be the output of
a local web filter ("This is a DoD enterprise-level protection system
intended to reduce risk to DoD users and protect DoD systems from
intrusion") but it occurs sometimes for www.army.mil accessed over Tor.


== 503-YELP

A custom block page of yelp.com. It contains the HTML
	<h2>Sorry, you're not allowed to access this page.</h2>
	<p>Your IP address is: X.X.X.X</p>
	<p>Please retry your request and <a href="mailto:feedback+unavailable@yelp.com?subject=IP%20Block%20Message%3A%20X.X.X.X">contact Yelp</a> if you continue experiencing issues.</p>
